[docs] Add a changelog for 1.10.0 (#5707)
DevExpress/testcafe: CHANGELOG.md

# Changelog

## v1.10.0 (2020-12-1)

### Enhancements

#### Window Resize and Screenshot Support for Child Windows in Chrome ([PR #5661](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/pull/5661), [PR #5567](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/pull/5567))

> You can now use the following actions in Google Chrome when the test context is switched to a [child window](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/guides/advanced-guides/multiple-browser-windows.html):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use the following actions in Google Chrome when you switch the test context to a [child window](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/guides/advanced-guides/multiple-browser-windows.html):
```

* [t.takeElementScreenshot](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/reference/test-api/testcontroller/takeelementscreenshot.html)
* [t.takeScreenshot](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/reference/test-api/testcontroller/takescreenshot.html)

#### New API to Specify Compiler Options ([#5519](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5519))

In previous versions, you used the following methods to specify TypeScript compiler options:

* the [--ts-config-path](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/reference/command-line-interface.html#--ts-config-path-path) command line flag

    ```sh
    testcafe chrome my-tests --ts-config-path path/to/config.json
    ```

* the [runner.tsConfigPath](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/reference/testcafe-api/runner/tsconfigpath.html) method

    ```js
    runner.tsConfigPath('path/to/config.json');
    ```

* the [tsConfigPath](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/reference/configuration-file.html#tsconfigpath) configuration file property

    ```json
    {
        "tsConfigPath": "path/to/config.json"
    }
    ```

> In v1.10.0, we introduced a new easy-to-use API that allows you to specify the compiler options in the command line, API or TestCafe configuration file, without creating a separate JSON file. The new API is also designed to accept options for more compilers (for instance, Babel) in the future releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In v1.10.0, we introduced a new easy-to-use API that allows you to specify the compiler options in the command line, API or TestCafe configuration file, without creating a separate JSON file. The new API is also designed to accept options for more compilers (for instance, Babel) in future releases.
```

    ```js
    runner.compilerOptions({
        typescript: {
            experimentalDecorators: true
        }
    });
    ```

* the [compilerOptions](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/reference/configuration-file.html#compileroptions) configuration file property

    ```json
    {
        "compilerOptions": {
            "typescript": {
                "experimentalDecorators": true
            }
        }
    }
    ```

If you prefer to keep compiler settings in a configuration file, you can use the new API to specify the path to this file:

```sh
testcafe chrome my-tests --compiler-options typescript.configPath='path/to/config.json'
```

In v1.10.0, you can customize TypeScript compiler options only.

For more information, see [TypeScript and CoffeeScript](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/guides/concepts/typescript-and-coffeescript.html).

#### Added a Selector Method to Access Shadow DOM ([PR #5560](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/pull/5560) by [@mostlyfabulous](https://github.com/mostlyfabulous))

> This release introduces the [selector.shadowRoot](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/reference/test-api/selector/shadowroot.html) method that allows you to easily access and interact with the shadow DOM elements. This method returns a shadow DOM root hosted in the selector's matched element.

Reviewer: "that allows you to easily access and interact" I would advise you not to use 'easily' without explaining why it is easily.

```js
import { Selector } from 'testcafe'

fixture `Target Shadow DOM elements`
    .page('https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/example')

test('Get text within shadow tree', async t => {
    const shadowRoot = Selector('div').withAttribute('id', 'shadow-host').shadowRoot();
    const paragraph  = shadowRoot.child('p');

    await t.expect(paragraph.textContent).eql('This paragraph is in the shadow tree');
});
```

> Note that you must chain other [selector methods](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/guides/basic-guides/select-page-elements.html#member-tables) to [selector.shadowRoot](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/reference/test-api/selector/shadowroot.html) in order to access elements in the shadow DOM. You cannot interact with the root element (an error occurs if you specify `selector.shadowRoot` as an action's target element).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that you should chain other [selector methods](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/guides/basic-guides/select-page-elements.html#member-tables) to [selector.shadowRoot](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/documentation/reference/test-api/selector/shadowroot.html) to access elements in the shadow DOM. You cannot interact with the root element (an error occurs if you specify `selector.shadowRoot` as an action's target element).
```

### Bug Fixes

> * Browsers now restart correctly on BrowserStack when connection is lost ([#5238](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5238))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Browsers now restart correctly on BrowserStack when the connection is lost ([#5238](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5238))
```

* Fixed an error that occurs if a child window is opened in an `iframe` ([#5033](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5033))
* TestCafe can now switch between the child and parent windows after the parent window is reloaded ([#5463](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5463), [#5597](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5597))

> * Fixed an issue when both touch and mouse events fired on mobile devices although the mouse event was prevented in page code ([#5380](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5380))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed an issue when touch and mouse events fired on mobile devices even though the mouse event was prevented in page code ([#5380](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5380))
```

* Cross-domain `iframes` are now focused correctly in Safari ([#4793](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/4793))
* Fixed an excessive warning displayed when an assertion is executed in a loop or against an element returned by a `selector.xxxSibling` method ([#5449](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5449), [#5389](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5389))
* Cross-domain `iframe` source links now have the correct protocol when SSL is used ([PR testcafe-hammerhead/#2478](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-hammerhead/pull/2478))
* A page error is no longer emitted if the destination server responded with the `304` status ([#5025](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/5025))

> * Fixed an issue when TestCafe could not authenticate to websites that use MSAL ([#4834](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/4834))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed an issue when TestCafe could not authenticate websites that use MSAL ([#4834](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/issues/4834))
```

* The `srcdoc` attributes for `iframes` are now processed ([testcafe-hammerhead/#1237](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-hammerhead/issues/1237))
* The `authorization` header is now preserved in response headers of fetch requests ([testcafe-hammerhead/#2334](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-hammerhead/issues/2334))

> * The `document.title` for an `iframe` without `src` can now be obtained correctly in Firefox ([PR testcafe-hammerhead/#2466](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-hammerhead/pull/2466))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `document.title` for an `iframe` without `src` can now be correctly obtained in Firefox ([PR testcafe-hammerhead/#2466](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-hammerhead/pull/2466))
```
